deploy-on-own-cloud/production-installation.md, before:

# Production Installation

To install Truefoundry in your own cloud for production use, please make sure you have the following things ready as 
mentioned in the [requirements](./requirements.md) page. 

1. Kubernetes Cluster
2. S3 Buckets
   1. Bucket Name and credentials to access them. 
3. Postgres DBs
   1. Host, Port, Username, Password and DB name. 
4. Information from Truefoundry Team
   1. Tenant ID
   2. Password of the initial user
   3. Image Pull Secret to pull the docker images

This guide will walk you through the process of setting up Truefoundry. 

## Install Truefoundry Helm-Charts

Make sure that [helm](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/) is installed.

### Add Truefoundry Helm Repo

```
helm repo add truefoundry https://truefoundry.github.io/charts
helm repo update
helm repo list
```

### Install Truefoundry helm chart

Create a values file (tfy.yaml) as shown below. Fill up the values as provided by Truefoundry team
and what is relevant for your cluster. You can see the details values file [here](You can see the complete values file [here](https://github.com/truefoundry/charts/blob/main/charts/truefoundry/values.yaml)

```
global:
  # The below are installation secrets that will be provided as is.
  # These are customised for your account. Please use the provided values as
  # is.
  imagePullCredentials: "<to_be_provided_by_truefoundry>"
  authTenantId: "<to_be_provided_by_truefoundry>"

##########################
# Settings specific to dashboard app
truefoundry-frontend-app:
  enabled: true
  replicaCount: 1
  # We support both generic ingress controller as well Istio Virtual Service. You
  # can configure either of them.
  ingress:
    enabled: false
    annotations: {}
    labels: {}
    ingressClassName: istio
    tls: []
    hosts: []
  istio:
    virtualservice:
      enabled: false
      annotations: {}
      gateways: []
      hosts: []

#############################
# Settings specific to mlfoundry.
mlfoundry-server:
  enabled: true
  replicaCount: 1
  env:
    # Database config for mlfoundry
    DB_USERNAME: ""
    DB_PASSWORD: ""
    DB_NAME: ""
    DB_HOST: ""
    DB_PORT: 5432
    # S3 bucket name mandatory
    S3_BUCKET_NAME: <s3_bucket_name>
  serviceAccount:
    annotations:
      # Provide permission to s3 using role_arn or anything compatible
      eks.amazonaws.com/role-arn: <role_arn>

#######################
# Settings specific to servicefoundry.
servicefoundry-server:
  enabled: true
  replicaCount: 1
  env:
    # S3 buckey name mandatory
    S3_BUCKET_NAME: <s3_bucket_name>
    # API KEY recieved from truefoundry for servicefoundry
    SVC_FOUNDRY_SERVICE_API_KEY: <to_be_provided_by_truefoundry>
    # Database config mandatory
    DB_USERNAME: ""
    DB_PASSWORD: ""
    DB_NAME: ""
    DB_HOST: ""
    DB_PORT: 5432
    # This is the externally reachable url configured above in the
    # ingress section of truefoundry-frontend-app. Without this value, servicefoundry
    # will not work.
    CONTROL_PLANE_URL: "https://truefoundry.organization.com"
  serviceAccount:
    annotations:
      # Provide permission to s3 using role_arn or anything compatible
      eks.amazonaws.com/role-arn: <role_arn>
```

Install the helm chart with this values file:

```
helm upgrade --install truefoundry truefoundry/truefoundry -f tfy.yaml --wait --create-namespace --namespace truefoundry
```

The above command can take a few seconds since it will wait for all the pods to come up. The default installation should install the components to the truefoundry namepsace. Once its done, check
the final status using the following command:

```
kubectl get pods -l 'app.kubernetes.io/name in (truefoundry-frontend-app,servicefoundry-server,mlfoundry-server)' -n truefoundry
```

You should see pods for each of the services truefoundry-frontend-app, servicefoundry-server, mlfoundry-server in `Running` condition

![Running Pods in truefoundry namespace](../assets/running-pods-truefoundry.png)

#### Verify Installation

If you have provided an ingress in tfy.yaml, you should be able to access truefoundry at the link provided in the 
hosts section, else you can always port-forward the service truefoundry frontend app and check.

```
kubectl port-forward svc/truefoundry-truefoundry-frontend-app 8080:5000 -n truefoundry
```

You should be greeted with a screen like below when you visit `https://localhost:8080` :

![Verify Installation](../assets/verify-truefoundry-installation.png)

You can login using the admin username and password provided to you. 

Please note at this point you can use MLFoundry and ML-Monitoring, but additional work is needed for 
getting started with ServiceFoundry. We need to provide the workload cluster to ServiceFoundry so that it can deploy
the workloads there.

Commit message:

[add_local_deps] Updates instructions for production and local install.

deploy-on-own-cloud/production-installation.md, after:

# Production Installation

To install Truefoundry in your own cloud for production use, please make sure you have the following things ready as 
mentioned in the [requirements](./requirements.md) page. 

1. Kubernetes Cluster
2. S3 Buckets
   1. Bucket Name and credentials to access them. 
3. Postgres DBs
   1. Host, Port, Username, Password and DB name. 
4. Information from Truefoundry Team
   1. Tenant ID
   2. Password of the initial user
   3. Image Pull Secret to pull the docker images

This guide will walk you through the process of setting up Truefoundry. 

## Install Truefoundry Helm-Charts

Make sure that [helm](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/) is installed.

### Add Truefoundry Helm Repo

```
helm repo add truefoundry https://truefoundry.github.io/charts
helm repo update
helm repo list
```

### Install Truefoundry helm chart

Create a values file (tfy.yaml) as shown below. Fill up the values as provided by Truefoundry team
and what is relevant for your cluster. You can see the details values file [here](You can see the complete values file [here](https://github.com/truefoundry/charts/blob/main/charts/truefoundry/values.yaml)

```
global:
  # The below are installation secrets that will be provided as is.
  # These are customised for your account. Please use the provided values as
  # is.
  imagePullCredentials: "<to_be_provided_by_truefoundry>"
  authTenantId: "<to_be_provided_by_truefoundry>"

##########################
# Settings specific to dashboard app
truefoundry-frontend-app:
  enabled: true
  replicaCount: 1
  # We support both generic ingress controller as well Istio Virtual Service. You
  # can configure either of them.
  ingress:
    enabled: false
    annotations: {}
    labels: {}
    ingressClassName: istio
    tls: []
    hosts: []
  istio:
    virtualservice:
      enabled: false
      annotations: {}
      gateways: []
      hosts: []

#############################
# Settings specific to mlfoundry.
mlfoundry-server:
  enabled: true
  replicaCount: 1
  env:
    # Database config for mlfoundry
    DB_USERNAME: ""
    DB_PASSWORD: ""
    DB_NAME: ""
    DB_HOST: ""
    DB_PORT: 5432
    # S3 bucket name mandatory
    S3_BUCKET_NAME: <s3_bucket_name>
  serviceAccount:
    annotations:
      # Provide permission to s3 using role_arn or anything compatible
      eks.amazonaws.com/role-arn: <role_arn>

#######################
# Settings specific to servicefoundry.
servicefoundry-server:
  enabled: true
  replicaCount: 1
  env:
    # S3 buckey name mandatory
    S3_BUCKET_NAME: <s3_bucket_name>
    # API KEY recieved from truefoundry for servicefoundry
    SVC_FOUNDRY_SERVICE_API_KEY: <to_be_provided_by_truefoundry>
    # Database config mandatory
    DB_USERNAME: ""
    DB_PASSWORD: ""
    DB_NAME: ""
    DB_HOST: ""
    DB_PORT: 5432
    # This is the externally reachable url configured above in the
    # ingress section of truefoundry-frontend-app. Without this value, servicefoundry
    # will not work.
    CONTROL_PLANE_URL: "https://truefoundry.organization.com"
  serviceAccount:
    annotations:
      # Provide permission to s3 using role_arn or anything compatible
      eks.amazonaws.com/role-arn: <role_arn>

#############################
# To further configure the local postgres installation use the following section.
# During cleanup, make sure to remove any stray pvc that might be created.
postgresql:
  enabled: false

# To further configure the local minio installation use the following section.
# The minio installation requires an ingress to function from outside the kubernetes
# cluster, for eg. from the cli or a different kubernetes cluster
minio:
  enabled: false
```

Install the helm chart with this values file:

```
helm upgrade --install truefoundry truefoundry/truefoundry -f tfy.yaml --wait --create-namespace --namespace truefoundry
```

The above command can take a few seconds since it will wait for all the pods to come up. The default installation should install the components to the truefoundry namepsace. Once its done, check
the final status using the following command:

```
kubectl get pods -l 'app.kubernetes.io/name in (truefoundry-frontend-app,servicefoundry-server,mlfoundry-server)' -n truefoundry
```

You should see pods for each of the services truefoundry-frontend-app, servicefoundry-server, mlfoundry-server in `Running` condition

![Running Pods in truefoundry namespace](../assets/running-pods-truefoundry.png)

#### Verify Installation

If you have provided an ingress in tfy.yaml, you should be able to access truefoundry at the link provided in the 
hosts section, else you can always port-forward the service truefoundry frontend app and check.

```
kubectl port-forward svc/truefoundry-truefoundry-frontend-app 8080:5000 -n truefoundry
```

You should be greeted with a screen like below when you visit `https://localhost:8080` :

![Verify Installation](../assets/verify-truefoundry-installation.png)

You can login using the admin username and password provided to you. 

Please note at this point you can use MLFoundry and ML-Monitoring, but additional work is needed for 
getting started with ServiceFoundry. We need to provide the workload cluster to ServiceFoundry so that it can deploy
the workloads there.
